# Procrystalline Lattices
Monte Carlo code written in C++ to generate a range of 2D procrystalline lattices based on a range of underlying lattice and node coordinations.

## Background

Procrystalline lattices have atomic units located on a regular array of points, but fewer bonds than the underlying lattice can accommodate [[1]][https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms10445].
Therefore whilst they may appear crystalline in terms of the atomic positions, the ring structure is disordered and displays no long range order.
2D procrystals can be generated by a zero-temperature Monte Carlo algorithm [TBC].

## Compilation 

Compilation is easiest using CMake.
To compile the code execute the following in terminal:
```commandline
cd src/
cmake .
make
```
It is recommended that in the
```CMakeCache.txt``` you set ```CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:STRING=Release``` before making.

The generated executable is called ```procrystal.x```.

## Input

The parameters for the calculation can be found in ```procrystal.inpt``` which are read at runtime.
An example input file is given below:
```text:
1: Procrystal Input File
2: ----------------------------------
3: Procrystal Properties
4: tri          lattice type (sq/tri/snub/isosnub/trihex/hex)
5: 3           node coordination
6: pattern2      link orientations (random/pattern1/pattern2)
7: 1 1 0 0 1 0     pattern code
8: 8         lattice dimension
9: ----------------------------------
10: Monte Carlo Parameters
11: 0           random seed
12: 0.0         temperature
13: 1          samples
14: ----------------------------------
15: Output
16: ./output/example   output prefix
17: 1          write samples
18: 1           calculate environments
19: 0           calculate rdfs
20: 0.02        RDF delta
21: 0           calculate sk
22: 0.01        sk delta
23: 100           n max
24: ----------------------------------
```

### Procrystal Properties 

TBC

### Monte Carlo Parameters

TBC

### Output 

TBC

## Runtime

Running ```procrystal.x``` will read the input file and start the code. A log file, ```procrystal.log```,
will also be produced which is quite verbose.

## Output and Visualisation

After the code has finished there should be several ```.dat``` files, prefixed with your output prefix.

TBC


## Examples

Please check out the gallery for some examples, which shows some visualisations of example outputs.

TBC

## Summary

This is a very brief overview of the code, designed to get some output.
Please let me know if you want to use it for research purposes and I will be happy to help.

 




